ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
the plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
leave to appeal to the supreme court was granted and the appeal was admitted on the 27th november 1951.
at one time it was a moot point whether a hindu widow 's estate could be created by will it being an estate created by law but it is now settled that a hindu can confer by means of a will oil his widow the same estate which she would get by inheritance.
the court 's primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
they were the real persons whom he earmarked with certainty as the ultimate recipients of his bounty.
in express terms he conferred on his daughter powers of alienation byway of gift exchange sale but in sharp contrast to this on his widow he conferred no such powers.
by this transaction she substituted one property by another.
for the purpose of her maintenance for payment of debts etc and for settling the claim of the daughter in law she does not appear to have felt any necessity to make any alienation of any part of the estate mentioned in the schedule and the testator in all likelihood knew that she could fulfil these obligations without having recourse to alienations and hence he did not give her any power to do so.
she had complete control over the income of the property during her lifetime.
she was given a present right of future enjoyment in the property.
this rule of construction by analogy is a dangerous one to follow in construing wills differently worded and executed in different surroundings.
vide sasiman v shib narain 491.
the fact that the gift over was a contingent bequest was by itself taken as a sure indication that the preceding bequest was that of a widow 's estate.
this decision therefore goes against the contention of the learned counsel but he placed reliance on the observations made in the judgment when the learned judge proceeded to say in deference to the view taken in maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad 1 it may be possible to create an interest analogous to a woman 's estate in hindu law notwithstanding the addition of a gift over and that the estate taken by section need not necessarily be only a life estate in the english law sense of the term.
this decision only decides that case and is not very relevant in this enquiry.
there was a clear prohibition forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the learned counsel for the respondent followed the line adopted by mr krishnaswami iyengar.
this suggestion in the surrounding circumstances attending the execution of this will can not be sustained.
in our judgment there is force in the contention of mr rajah iyer for reasons already stated and in the result therefore we dismiss this appeal with costs.
this will was construed as conveying an absolute estate to the son and the daughter of the niece.
reliance was next placed on the decision in pavani subbamma v ammala rama naidu 1937.
the following remarks in the privy council decision in nathu ram mahajan v gangayabai 1938.
in vasantharao ammannamma v venkata kodanda rao pantalu 1939.
he omits the words during her life with reference to the disposition in favour of the daughter.
that was a case of a government grant on the special terms set out therein and the question arose as to the nature of the grant.
in a suit by the respondent against his grandmother the daughter of the testator for a declaratory order preserving unmolested his future right and title to the said lands it was held that the daughter took an estate subject to her daughters succeeding her.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
there the testator made a will in favour of his wife providing inter alia.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
this was a case of a gift inter vivos.
chunderbutti his wife was in these terms the remaining milkiut and minhai estates together with the amount of ready money articles slaves and all household furniture i have placed in the possession of mst.
the subordinate judge held that chunderbutti got an estate for life with the power to appropriate profits and girdhari got a vested remainder on her death.
it would also follow that she would completely represent the estate and under certain circumstances the statute of limitations might run against the heirs to the estate whoever they might be.
when i die my wife named suraj is owner of that property.
